# Summary

![whitehacks logo](/images/whitehacks-2022/whitehacks.png)

Challenges and writeups for Whitehacks 2022 hosted by the School of Computing
and Information Systems, Singapore Management University.

Compiled by `tooleerfmaet`, comprising:

- Ivan Tung ([@skytect](https://github.com/skytect))
- Liu Jie Xu ([@8061xjl](https://github.com/8061xjl))
- Joey Tang ([@fishjojo1](https://github.com/fishjojo1))

_we can't do pwn ( ≧Д≦)_

## MISC

### Sanity Check

Welcome to Whitehacks 2022! As a sanity check, please proceed to our official
Discord server and find the flag!

Join our Discord Server here:
[https://discord.gg/eUAhxhSZdH](https://discord.gg/eUAhxhSZdH)

_Solved by [@8061xjl](https://github.com/8061xjl)_

`WH2022{w3lc0m3_t0_wh2022}`

### Read The RULES

Before you start solving the other challenges we have made for you, please read
the rules in the Discord channel.

They can be found in #rules. Once you have read them, you should know what to
do!

`WH2022{e47c05168af4eb9b47b8e0ebd357d2c35df4f062}`

### Never Gonna Stitch You Up

Author: xbowery

Difficulty: Easy

We have received a file from the aliens, but it got malformed halfway during
transmission. Can you retrieve the flag from this file?

<br />
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/get_rickrolled.mp4" download>
  get_rickrolled.mp4
</a>

`WH2022{5tr1ng_m3_up_b3f0r3_y0u_g0_go}`

### Garbage Runner

Author: xbowery

Difficulty: Easy

The mischievous aliens have dumped our lovely poster into the trash can, maybe
you can walk through it to find some treasure?

<br />
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/treasure.pdf" download>
  treasure.pdf
</a>

_Solved by [@skytect](https://github.com/skytect)_

`WH2022{m0r3_th4n_m33t5_th3_3y3}`

### Catch the theiFS

Author: Lord_Idiot

Difficulty: Easy

Try and catch the thieFS!

Connect with: \
ssh play@challenges1.whitehacks.xyz -p 55332

Some helpful resources:

- You can use [PuTTY](https://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/) if
  you're not familiar with the command-line.
- [https://linuxize.com/post/linux-cd-command/](https://linuxize.com/post/linux-cd-command/)

_Solved by [@skytect](https://github.com/skytect)_

`WH2022{Low_crime_is_not_no_crime!}`

### Escape Plane

Author: iPhantasmic (Justin)

Difficulty: Easy

One of the 8-bit aliens from our Whitehacks poster seems to have escaped via a
**colourful plane**... They left a message somewhere, can you find it?

<br />
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/poster.png" download>
  poster.png
</a>

_Solved by [@fishjojo1](https://github.com/fishjojo1)_

`WH2022{rGb_h1d3s_1nf0_t00}`

## WEB

### ransom_console-1

Author: Louis (l0j0)

Difficulty: Medium

Space Department has found a web server where Shadowcore, a group of ransomware
operators providing Ransomware-as-a-Service in Planet X26-10EG, monitors their
C2 server from.

Challenge Access: \
[http://challenges1.whitehacks.xyz:5001](http://challenges1.whitehacks.xyz:5001)
[http://challenges2.whitehacks.xyz:5001](http://challenges2.whitehacks.xyz:5001)

Let's retrieve their SSH key from the home directory at
/home/r4s0m_4d1m1n/flag.txt so that we can access their C2 Server directly.

_Solved by [@fishjojo1](https://github.com/fishjojo1)_

`WH2022{SSH_KeY5_ST0L3n_8y_U5}`

### ransom_console-2

Author: Louis (l0j0)

Difficulty: Medium-Hard

Shadowcore discovered we stole their keys due to strong monitoring system on
their upload page and discover what we were up to. They have hidden the key
somewhere else. Fortunately, for us, we have managed to extract a snippet of
their source code for their new dashboard they created as we were kicked out of
their server. Let's hack them again, this time putting an end to all their
operations.

Challenge Access: \
[http://challenges1.whitehacks.xyz:5002](http://challenges1.whitehacks.xyz:5002)
[http://challenges2.whitehacks.xyz:5002](http://challenges2.whitehacks.xyz:5002)

<br />
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/code.png" download>
  code.png
</a>

### gong_xi_fa_cai

Author: Gladiator

Difficulty: Easy

We provided the configuration file for a webserver below. Can you access
flag.txt?

Challenge Access: \
[http://challenges2.whitehacks.xyz:5888](http://challenges2.whitehacks.xyz:5888)

<br />
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/default" download>
  default
</a>

_Solved by [@fishjojo1](https://github.com/fishjojo1)_

`WH2022{<3_dont_w4it_0r_say_a_single_vow_you_need_to_hear_me_out_and_they_speak_noooww_<3}`

### Snakes in School

Author: Gladiator

Difficulty: Medium

I developed a super secure URL parser. No way you can bypass it. But if you do,
your bounty is in the Environment Variable!

Psst: It only accepts links from tinyurl.com...

Challenge Access: \
[http://challenges2.whitehacks.xyz:5100](http://challenges2.whitehacks.xyz:5100)

<br />
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/server.py" download>
  server.py
</a>

## OSINT

### Beginning of a Journey

Author: Hartanto

Difficulty: Easy

Welcome to OSINT! The challenges in this category will enable you to learn more
about OSINT, and reflect on your internet activity traces.

Here's your first challenge. One of our friends, Lewis, is a Computer Science
student at SMU School of Computing and Information Systems who is majoring in
cybersecurity. Unfortunately, we haven't heard from him in a couple of weeks.

Let's see if we can find something on his Twitter account. Not really sure what
is his username though. But I do recall his full name is Lewis Chan and that his
birthday is on the 6th of January. Oh, and he really hates cryptocurrency. I
think he said that it is a Ponzi scheme or something.

Note: Making any contact with any individuals is out of the scope of this
challenge. You wouldn't want to alert someone that you're investigating them
right?

_Solved by [@skytect](https://github.com/skytect)_

`WH2022{s0c1al_m3d14_4dv3ntur35}`

### The Wheels on The Bus 1

Author: Hartanto

Difficulty: Easy

Shortly before Lewis disappeared, he sent me this video. Can you check where he
entered the bus?

Video: [https://shorturl.at/rvIY7](https://shorturl.at/rvIY7)

Flag is in the format: `WH2022{BusStopCode}`

Note: Visiting the location in the video is out of the scope of this challenge.

_Solved by [@fishjojo1](https://github.com/fishjojo1)_

### The Wheels on The Bus 2

Author: Hartanto

Difficulty: Medium

So, we found out that Lewis took bus 48 from Tanah Merah Stn Exit A. One hour
later, he sent this. Where was he at the end of the video?

Video: [https://shorturl.at/gorFR](https://shorturl.at/gorFR)

Flag is in the format: `WH2022{PostalCode}`

Note: Visiting the location in the video is out of the scope of this challenge.

_Solved by [@fishjojo1](https://github.com/fishjojo1)_

### This Christmas

Author: Hartanto

Difficulty: Medium

So, Lewis had this habit of inviting people to next year's Christmas party at
the start of every year. However, this year he didn't provide us with any
information. All he provides us is this card. Maybe there's something there?

Card: [https://shorturl.at/oyAJ6](https://shorturl.at/oyAJ6)

_Solved by [@fishjojo1](https://github.com/fishjojo1)_

### Bad Historical Design

Author: Hartanto

Difficulty: Easy

So, Lewis used to say to me that he had a website. I doubt there is anything
there, but let's check it out.

Site Link: [https://lewischan0601.github.io](https://lewischan0601.github.io)

_Solved by [@skytect](https://github.com/skytect)_

`WH2022{4r3_y0u_sur3_y0ur_s3cr3t_1s_s4f3_?}`

### The War of The Worlds 1 - Shell Company

Author: Hartanto

Difficulty: Easy

Anyway, before Lewis disappeared, he got alerted that some company is providing
CTFSolver-as-a-Service. I mean, what kind of cruel human being would take away
all the F(un) from CTF, and we surely don't want anyone to be using their
service for our upcoming CTF.

Check this out:
[https://github.com/CTFSolverService](https://github.com/CTFSolverService)

In any case, find out who owns the company. Maybe they have something to do with
Lewis's disappearance.

Flag is in the format: `WH2022{FullNameWithNoSpaceAndInitialCaps}`

_Solved by [@fishjojo1](https://github.com/fishjojo1)_

### The War of The Worlds 2

didn't manage to record this down

## FORENSICS

### Do the Shimmy!

Author: iPhantasmic (Justin)

Difficulty: Easy-Medium

Thank goodness you got the passwords before the alien invaders! But it seems the
aliens have shifted their sights and are looking up the shimmy dance... If they
get to see the dance, they would have the key to defeat humankind!

We need you to quickly identify how much they have seen, we have the following
piece of intel: An application was executed at: "2022-02-26 18:43:31 UTC+0000"

Find the application, and we will be able to handle the rest!

Flag is in the format: `WH2022{absolute_path_of_executed_application}`

Note: Reuse the same file (memdump.mem) from "The Prompt Within"

_Solved by [@8061xjl](https://github.com/8061xjl)_

`WH2022{C:\Program Files\Google\Chrome\Application\chrome.exe}`

### Jack's Rival

Author: xbowery

Difficulty: Easy

We know the infamous murderer Jack the Ripper from the 1880s, but are you aware
that Jack had a twin brother, John, who also turned out to be his fiercest rival
as they compete for fame?

John was last seen competing to see who could outsing Freddie Mercury in a
soprano contest out in the public before he went hiding. He left a file
containing a note about his darkest secret. Are you able to retrieve it?

<br />
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/treasures.zip" download>
  treasures.zip
</a>

_Solved by [@8061xjl](https://github.com/8061xjl)_

`WH2022{W3_wi11_w3_w1ll_r0cky0u}`

### The Prompt Within

Author: KS, Chun

Difficulty: Hard

Invasion alert!! Incoming APOCALYPSE squito minions!!!

Survive, RE, or just try your best to stay alive. Implement your winning
strategy and defeat the invasion!

This challenge is best done on a Windows platform or a VM with Windows
installed. You can execute the binary in a Windows VM as a starting point.

This game is developed on a game engine that is completely free and open-source.

The flag you will find in the challenge follows this format: `WH2022{*}`

_Solved by [@8061xjl](https://github.com/8061xjl)_

`WH2022{w3_h5v3_7h31r_c0ns0l3_r3qu3s71ng_b5ckup}`

### Katz Memes

Author: iPhantasmic (Justin)

Difficulty: Easy-Medium

Following up from the alien's attempt to communicate back to base, it seems that
they have attempted to open up some cat memes whilst waiting for reinforcements!

Their plans were thwarted when they realised they needed Administrator
privileges... Can you get the password of the user before they do?

Flag is in the format: `WH2022{NTLMhash_plaintext}`

<br />
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/mem.DMP" download>
  mem.DMP
</a>

_Solved by [@8061xjl](https://github.com/8061xjl)_

`WH2022{3e75469c75ab018e72f5d2fb59e9b0bb_tryHarder}`

### Hidden_in_plain_sight

Author: Louis (L0j0)

Difficulty: Easy-Medium

Planet X0507-LJL has decided to run the inaugural galactic exchange program with
the students from their planet with our Earth. While gathering images of the
different universities on Earth, Planet X0507-LJL discovered an image containing
hidden information amongst the images of the different universities. The
information seems to be hidden in the bits.

Help them crack this image and figure out the hidden transmission!

<br />
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/SMU_hidden.png" download>
  SMU_hidden.png
</a>

## CRYPTO

### Really S1mp(l3) Algorithm

Author: xbowery

Difficulty: Easy

Rumour has it that this algorithm originated from the Republic of South Africa!

<br />
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/challenge.txt" download>
  challenge.txt
</a>

_Solved by [@skytect](https://github.com/skytect)_

`WH2022{1t5_r34lly_s1mpl3_4m_1_r1ght}`

### Ridiculously Simpler Algorithm

Author: xbowery

Difficulty: Medium

You cracked me once, now I'm back for revenge with an upgraded defence
mechanism!

<br />
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/encrypted.txt" download>
  encrypted.txt
</a>

### The Indecipherable Cipher

Author: WickedEye (Ying Keat)

Difficulty: Easy

Some say this cipher cannot be deciphered. Well, do you believe them?

Even worse, some say this cipher is misattributed!

I would say that the key to solving this challenge is to remember who the true
inventor was.

<br />
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/cipher.txt" download>
  cipher.txt
</a>

_Solved by [@skytect](https://github.com/skytect)_

`WH2022{v1g3n3r3_15_Juz_Ca3s@r_C1pH3R_0N_sT3R01Ds}`

### The Poem of Knowledge

Author: xbowery

Difficulty: Easy

Our knowledgeable alien friend named Beale left us with a purported "Poem of
Knowledge" before he went back to his universe.

He also dropped a message behind. Can you decipher what he was trying to say?

17-73-24-55-84-101-141-44-54-49-10-123-62-131-114-67-47-46-60-83-84

Note: Please wrap the flag with `WH2022{...}` The flag is case-sensitive!

<br />
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/Poem" download>
  Poem
</a>

_Solved by [@skytect](https://github.com/skytect)_

`WH2022{IHopeYouhadagreattime}`

### Meet where? Middle Road?

didn't manage to record this down

### Booleancrypt

Author: prokarius

Difficulty: Hard

This little fellow seems to be in charge of their encryption module, here are
his insides!

Challenge Access: \
nc challenges1.whitehacks.xyz 43232 \
nc challenges2.whitehacks.xyz 43232

<br />
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/booleancrypt.py" download>
  booleancrypt.py
</a>

## RE

### the floor is java

Author: xbowery

Difficulty: Easy

We found some weird message that was accompanied within this file, can you
decode this message and unlock the flag?

<br />
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/Reverse.class" download>
  Reverse.class
</a>
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/message.txt" download>
  message.txt
</a>

_Solved by [@skytect](https://github.com/skytect)_

`WH2022{1_l0v3_r3v3r51ng_5tr1ng5}`

### baby_go

Author: Louis (l0j0)

Difficulty: Easy

The Advanced Parallel Planet Earth C365-MCL has mastered the language of Go and
has challenged our Earth C380-SCL to reverse their Go software that does
absolutely nothing, with absolutely no output. Find out what is hidden in their
mysterious Go software. The gauntlet has been thrown. Face this challenge right
now Space Crews.

<br />
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/baby_go" download>
  baby_go
</a>

### Oooo

Author: prokarius

Difficulty: Easy

We've found this alien attached to a password verification device, help us get
verified!

Challenge Access: \
nc challenges1.whitehacks.xyz 35566 \
nc challenges2.whitehacks.xyz 35566

<br />
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/distrib.py" download>
  distrib.py
</a>

## PWN

### SpaceQ United International Department

Author: Louis (l0j0)

Difficulty: Easy

The Space Department is having problems with the server they used for storing
their SQUID files. Help them retrieve it through your expertise. I heard they
also restricted themselves from doing anything on the server. Gosh, what a
trouble.

Challenge Access: \
nc challenges3.whitehacks.xyz 50001

### Letters To Space

Author: niktay

Difficulty: Medium

Welcome to our new inter-galactic mail service! Send letters to your loved
aliens, and maybe even read a secret letter! Note: flag.txt is in the home
directory.

Interact with the service at: nc challenges1.whitehacks.xyz 53890 \
nc challenges2.whitehacks.xyz 53890

<br />
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/letters_to_space" download>
  letters_to_space
</a>

### Rocket Man

Author: niktay

Difficulty: Medium

Let's launch some rockets and go to the moon! 🐶🚀

Interact with the service at: nc challenges1.whitehacks.xyz 53901 \
nc challenges2.whitehacks.xyz 53901

<br />
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/rocket_man" download>
  rocket_man
</a>

### baby_HOF

Author: Louis (L0J0)

Difficulty: Hard-Insane

Planet X05-07LJL has sought the help of the International Space Department to
regain control of their commercial servers by the HOF Galatic Hackers. However,
to fix it, we need to replicate the method used to hack the software and
retrieve the flag.txt which contains the master key to their servers. After
initial reconnaissance, we have retrieved a template of the format for you to
use. Save PlanetX05-07LJL's economy.

Challenge Access: \
nc challenges1.whitehacks.xyz 54433 \
nc challenges2.whitehacks.xyz 54433

Note: The binary uses glibc version 2.27

<br />
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/baby_HOF" download>
  baby_HOF
</a>
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/libc-2.27.so" download>
  libc-2.27.so
</a>
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/template.py" download>
  template.py
</a>

## CSA

### [OSINT] Programmes for Youths

Difficulty: Easy

a. How many stages are there in the SG Cyber Youth Odyssey?

b. What is the name of the programme at the 'Excel' stage? (omit the spaces)

c. How many project tiers does the SG Cyber Talent Development Fund support?

Flag Format: `WH2022{numericdigit_NameOfProgramme_numericdigit}` e.g.
`WH2022{1_Excellence_1}`

_Solved by [@skytect](https://github.com/skytect)_

`WH2022{4_SGCyberOlympians_3}`

### [RE] CSA_REChallenge

Author: Ahmad Abdillah, Systems Engineer, CSA

Difficulty: Medium

Reverse engineer the executable file to obtain the password (in the format of
the flag). Use a disassembler to understand how the program works.

<br />
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/crackWH_2022v1.exe" download>
  crackWH_2022v1.exe
</a>

## CSIT

### [PWN] Squitovasion

Author: KS, Chun

Difficulty: Hard

Invasion alert!! Incoming APOCALYPSE squito minions!!!

Survive, RE, or just try your best to stay alive. Implement your winning
strategy and defeat the invasion!

This challenge is best done on a Windows platform or a VM with Windows
installed. You can execute the binary in a Windows VM as a starting point.

This game is developed on a game engine that is completely free and open-source.

The flag you will find in the challenge follows this format: `WH2022{*}`

<br />
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/squitovasion.zip" download>
  squitovasion.zip
</a>

_Solved by [@fishjojo1](https://github.com/fishjojo1)_

### [CRYPTO] Foil the Plot

Author: Chun

Difficulty: Hard

APOCALYPSE activated a sleeper cell for a suicide bombing but the target
location is not known.....

Experts from CSIT have discovered the attacker-controlled server that was used
to send a secret message to the sleeper cell. The server is protected with a
password that is at least 40 chars long! The server does not store the password
but to our good fortune, a weakness has been discovered in the way it performs
the authentication.

It validates the password by performing the following steps:

1. Split the 40 char password into 2 equally-sized segments
2. Check that the segments are not identical
3. Generate the SHA-256 digests of both segments
4. Check that the last 5 bytes of both digests are identical

Your task is to gain authentication to the server, decipher the message and
determine the target location before it's too late!

Challenge Access: \
[http://challenges1.whitehacks.xyz:28800](http://challenges1.whitehacks.xyz:28800)
[http://challenges2.whitehacks.xyz:28800](http://challenges2.whitehacks.xyz:28800)

Enter the flag as `WH2022{ID_postal code}`

Eg. `WH2022{s@m_pl3_123456}`

_Solved by [@skytect](https://github.com/skytect) and
([@fishjojo1](https://github.com/fishjojo1))_

`WH2022{h@$h_c011i$i0n_118628}`

## GOVTECH

### [WEB] Meoware :3

Author: blackroxs

Difficulty: Easy

SpaceY Corp. has been hit by a meoware attack. Wait a second, what even is a
meoware? Nevertheless, your job here is simple. Retrieve the stolen flag from
their web servers before they vanish for good.

Challenge Access: \
[http://challenges1.whitehacks.xyz:21080](http://challenges1.whitehacks.xyz:21080)
[http://challenges2.whitehacks.xyz:21080](http://challenges2.whitehacks.xyz:21080)

<br />
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/api.py" download>
  api.py
</a>
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/proxy.py" download>
  proxy.py
</a>
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/web.py" download>
  web.py
</a>

### [PWN] Window of Opportunities

Author: violenttestpen

Difficulty: Easy

Innovation is a way of life at GovTech. We think big, start small, and learn
from failing fast. We have programmes to empower our GovTechies spark
collaboration and drive innovative projects for public good. Our Agile, Bold,
and Collaborative values unite us from different teams in delivering the
business outcomes in a growth-oriented workplace. They drive what we build for
our citizens, businesses, and public officers.

Don't miss this **window** of opportunity to check out our information helpdesk
service and find out more!

Challenge Access: \
nc challenges1.whitehacks.xyz 23339 \
nc challenges2.whitehacks.xyz 23339

<br />
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/window_of_opportunity.c" download>
  window_of_opportunity.c
</a>
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/window_of_opportunity.exe" download>
  window_of_opportunity.exe
</a>

### [PWN] Alternate

Author: jinjinz

Difficulty: Medium

A wild alien has appeared! Our Earth Defense Forces did not predict this
invasion and could not respond in time. The only usable weapon right now is a
pair of loaded laser cannons that can fire just once. It is up to you as the
marksman operator to take down this enemy of mankind. Also, there are some
rumours that this alien is holding onto our flag. Make this shot count.

Challenge Access: \
nc challenges1.whitehacks.xyz 22050 \
nc challenges2.whitehacks.xyz 22050

<br />
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/alternate" download>
  alternate
</a>
<a href="/files/whitehacks-2022/alternate.c" download>
  alternate.c
</a>
